# What Were the Odds of the Challenger Disaster?
### Brief Overview
 We began our project by deciding on the topic of the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster and choosing a dataset alongside it. Our dataset provides recorded performance metrics and temperature conditions of the environment during trials of the Challenger. After this, we planned out the order and general idea for each section of our scrolling website. We then implemented a simulation that illustrates the likelihood of a space shuttle explosion in relation to the environment’s temperature. We used the recorded number of o-rings with thermal stress from the data to fit a logistic regression model that classifies whether the shuttle launched or failed. This is due to the relation between o-ring functionality and temperature, and how the rings fail to work properly at lower temperatures. The viewers can engage with the simulation by choosing a particular temperature with the slider and then launching the shuttle with the press of a button to determine if the launch will be successful. 
 
### Implemented Aspects 
To analyze the odds of the Challenger successfully launching, we researched the narrative behind the disaster and the space shuttle’s trial data. We use a dataset on performance metrics of the Challenger’s trials from UCI’s Machine Learning Repository. The dataset we use is “Primary O-ring Erosion and/or Blowby” which includes information on the number of O-rings at risk on a given flight, the number experiencing thermal distress, the launch temperature in degrees Fahrenheit, leak-check pressure in psi, and the temporal order of flight.
We then referenced statistical analysis on the Challenger’s trials, o-ring damage, and its relationship to temperature. By doing so we found that the probability of o-ring damage in relation to the temperature during launch is described by a logistic model. Using Scikit-learn we fit a logistic regression model to trial data to predict probability of o-ring damage given launch temperature. We define damaged o-rings as those that experienced thermal stress during a trial. Along with this, we describe a successful launch to be one such that there were no o-rings that experienced thermal stress and label launches unsuccessful otherwise. This is because when evaluating launch success solely on o-rings and temperature, o-ring distress poses a risk to blow-by gasses. We then implemented this within our simulation of the Challenger’s launch at different temperatures including the actual launch temperature. For more information on our motivations and objectives watch our overview <a href= "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2bBDswzQooI"> video.
